README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://sourcefuse.github.io/arc-docs/arc-api-docs" target="blank"><img src="https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/docs/assets/logo-dark-bg.png?raw=true" width="180" alt="ARC Logo" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  With ARC SaaS, we’re introducing a pioneering SaaS factory model based control plane microservices and IaC modules that promises to revolutionize your SaaS journey.
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=sourcefuse_arc-saas" target="_blank">
<img alt="Sonar Quality Gate" src="https://img.shields.io/sonar/quality_gate/sourcefuse_arc-saas?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<a href="https://app.snyk.io/org/ashishkaushik/reporting?context[page]=issues-detail&project_target=%255B%2522sourcefuse%252Farc-saas%2522%255D&project_origin=%255B%2522github%2522%255D&issue_status=%255B%2522Open%2522%255D&issue_by=Severity&table_issues_detail_cols=SCORE%257CCVE%257CCWE%257CPROJECT%257CEXPLOIT%2520MATURITY%257CAUTO%2520FIXABLE%257CINTRODUCED%257CSNYK%2520PRODUCT&v=1">
<img alt="Synk Status" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SYNK_SECURITY-MONITORED-GREEN?style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<a href="./LICENSE">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sourcefuse/arc-saas?style=for-the-badge" alt="License" />
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/graphs/contributors" target="_blank">
  <img alt="GitHub contributors" src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sourcefuse/arc-saas?style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<!-- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~sourceloop" target="_blank">
  <img alt="sourceloop core downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@sourceloop/core?style=for-the-badge">
</a> -->
<!-- Will add once we publish this -->
<a href="https://loopback.io/" target="_blank">
  <img alt="Pb Loopback" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-Loopback 4-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://nestjs.com/" target="_blank">
  <img alt="Pb Loopback" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Compatible%20With-NestJS-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>

</p>

# ARC SAAS

## What is ARC SaaS

We are thrilled to introduce our cutting-edge control plane, meticulously designed to simplify tenant onboarding, tenant subscription management and tenant provisioning based upon isolation levels, vis-a-vis, Silo, Pooled and Bridge. It also comes up with a configurable SaaS license tiers and plans, along with a streamlined billing processes. From seamless tenant management to robust monitoring and analytics, fortified security and compliance measures, and versatile API management, ARC SaaS will be your one stop solution for building a SaaS product faster than ever.

## Why ARC SaaS

Our control plane, akin to our catalog of application plane services, provides a range of advantages. ARC SaaS not only accelerates SaaS application development but also offers customization tailored to your needs, granting you the flexibility to harness the full spectrum of ARC benefits. This includes time-saving measures, adherence to best practices, seamless plug-and-play integration, and a standardized approach based off AWS SaaS factory reference architecture principles. All of this following the SaaS standards and architecture that accommodates your unique requirements.

ARC SaaS architecture consists of two major layers at a high level

- Control Plane - The control plane is foundational to any multi-tenant SaaS model. ARC SaaS control plane will include those services that give consumers the ability to manage and operate their tenants through a single, unified experience. Within the control plane, we have 3-tier architecture supporting UI (or some CLI), API and data separately. The core services here represent the collection of services that are used to orchestrate multi-tenant experience. We’ve included some of the common examples of services that are typically part of the core. However, these core services could vary for each SaaS solution depending on the requirements. In the architecture diagram above, we have also shown a separate administration application UI. This represents the application (a web application, a command line interface, or an API) that might be used by a SaaS provider to manage their multi-tenant environment. Please note that the control plane and its services are not actually multi-tenant. These services are global to all tenants and are basically used to operate and manage tenants.

- Application Plane - At the bottom of the diagram, we have represented the application plane of a SaaS environment. This is where the multi-tenant functionality of the actual application will reside.

This repo covers the control plane of Saas model.

## What we offer

Control plane will be the power house of your SaaS application. With the help of this control plane all your tenant applications can be managed and monitored effortlessly. This control plane ensures a smooth and efficient tenant onboarding.

## Logical Architecture

![image](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/assets/107617248/ec3f9e75-6c66-4ee3-87a9-a8b19b636185)

## API Flow Diagram

![flow](./services/tenant-management-service/docs/tenant-onboarding.png)

## Pre-built Micro-services

There are currently 2 Microservices provided and actively maintained:

1. [Tenant Management Service](services/tenant-management-service)
2. [Subscription Service](services/subscription-service)

## Feedback

If you've noticed a bug or have a question or have a feature request, [search the issue tracker](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/issues) to see if someone else in the community has already created a ticket.
If not, go ahead and [make one](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/issues/new/choose)!
All feature requests are welcome. Implementation time may vary. Feel free to contribute the same, if you can.
If you think this extension is useful, please [star](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-stars) it. Appreciation really helps in keeping this project alive.

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Code of conduct

Code of conduct guidelines [here](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat: add Sequelize ORM (#70)
## Description

This PR replaces the LoopBack built-in Juggler ORM with Sequelize for
handling database operations.

Fixes # (issue)

GH-69

## Type of change

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [x] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing
functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] Intermediate change (work in progress.

## Checklist:

- [ ] Performed a self-review of my own code
- [x] npm test passes on your machine
- [ ] New tests added or existing tests modified to cover all changes
- [ ] Code conforms with the style guide
- [ ] API Documentation in code was updated
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published in downstream
modules

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://sourcefuse.github.io/arc-docs/arc-api-docs" target="blank"><img src="https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/docs/assets/logo-dark-bg.png?raw=true" width="180" alt="ARC Logo" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  With ARC SaaS, we’re introducing a pioneering SaaS factory model based control plane microservices and IaC modules that promises to revolutionize your SaaS journey.
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=sourcefuse_arc-saas" target="_blank">
<img alt="Sonar Quality Gate" src="https://img.shields.io/sonar/quality_gate/sourcefuse_arc-saas?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<a href="https://app.snyk.io/org/ashishkaushik/reporting?context[page]=issues-detail&project_target=%255B%2522sourcefuse%252Farc-saas%2522%255D&project_origin=%255B%2522github%2522%255D&issue_status=%255B%2522Open%2522%255D&issue_by=Severity&table_issues_detail_cols=SCORE%257CCVE%257CCWE%257CPROJECT%257CEXPLOIT%2520MATURITY%257CAUTO%2520FIXABLE%257CINTRODUCED%257CSNYK%2520PRODUCT&v=1">
<img alt="Synk Status" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SYNK_SECURITY-MONITORED-GREEN?style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<a href="./LICENSE">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sourcefuse/arc-saas?style=for-the-badge" alt="License" />
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/graphs/contributors" target="_blank">
  <img alt="GitHub contributors" src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sourcefuse/arc-saas?style=for-the-badge">
</a>
<!-- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~sourceloop" target="_blank">
  <img alt="sourceloop core downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@sourceloop/core?style=for-the-badge">
</a> -->
<!-- Will add once we publish this -->
<a href="https://loopback.io/" target="_blank">
  <img alt="Pb Loopback" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-Loopback 4-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://nestjs.com/" target="_blank">
  <img alt="Pb Loopback" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Compatible%20With-NestJS-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>

</p>

# ARC SAAS

## What is ARC SaaS

We are thrilled to introduce our cutting-edge control plane, meticulously designed to simplify tenant onboarding, tenant subscription management and tenant provisioning based upon isolation levels, vis-a-vis, Silo, Pooled and Bridge. It also comes up with a configurable SaaS license tiers and plans, along with a streamlined billing processes. From seamless tenant management to robust monitoring and analytics, fortified security and compliance measures, and versatile API management, ARC SaaS will be your one stop solution for building a SaaS product faster than ever.

## Why ARC SaaS

Our control plane, akin to our catalog of application plane services, provides a range of advantages. ARC SaaS not only accelerates SaaS application development but also offers customization tailored to your needs, granting you the flexibility to harness the full spectrum of ARC benefits. This includes time-saving measures, adherence to best practices, seamless plug-and-play integration, and a standardized approach based off AWS SaaS factory reference architecture principles. All of this following the SaaS standards and architecture that accommodates your unique requirements.

ARC SaaS architecture consists of two major layers at a high level

- Control Plane - The control plane is foundational to any multi-tenant SaaS model. ARC SaaS control plane will include those services that give consumers the ability to manage and operate their tenants through a single, unified experience. Within the control plane, we have 3-tier architecture supporting UI (or some CLI), API and data separately. The core services here represent the collection of services that are used to orchestrate multi-tenant experience. We’ve included some of the common examples of services that are typically part of the core. However, these core services could vary for each SaaS solution depending on the requirements. In the architecture diagram above, we have also shown a separate administration application UI. This represents the application (a web application, a command line interface, or an API) that might be used by a SaaS provider to manage their multi-tenant environment. Please note that the control plane and its services are not actually multi-tenant. These services are global to all tenants and are basically used to operate and manage tenants.

- Application Plane - At the bottom of the diagram, we have represented the application plane of a SaaS environment. This is where the multi-tenant functionality of the actual application will reside.

This repo covers the control plane of Saas model.

## What we offer

Control plane will be the power house of your SaaS application. With the help of this control plane all your tenant applications can be managed and monitored effortlessly. This control plane ensures a smooth and efficient tenant onboarding.

## Logical Architecture

![image](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/assets/107617248/ec3f9e75-6c66-4ee3-87a9-a8b19b636185)

## API Flow Diagram

![flow](./services/tenant-management-service/docs/tenant-onboarding.png)

## Pre-built Micro-services

There are currently 2 Microservices provided and actively maintained:

1. [Tenant Management Service](services/tenant-management-service)
2. [Subscription Service](services/subscription-service)

## Sequelize Support

If your SaaS application uses Sequelize as the ORM, make sure to use the Sequelize-compatible components,else use the respective default components.

## Feedback

If you've noticed a bug or have a question or have a feature request, [search the issue tracker](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/issues) to see if someone else in the community has already created a ticket.
If not, go ahead and [make one](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/issues/new/choose)!
All feature requests are welcome. Implementation time may vary. Feel free to contribute the same, if you can.
If you think this extension is useful, please [star](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-stars) it. Appreciation really helps in keeping this project alive.

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Code of conduct

Code of conduct guidelines [here](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/blob/master/LICENSE)
