services/subscription-service/README.md, before:

# subscription-service
[![LoopBack](<https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/raw/master/docs/site/imgs/branding/Powered-by-LoopBack-Badge-(blue)-@2x.png>)](http://loopback.io/)

This is the primary service of the control plane responsible for subscription and plan management.


## Overview

A Microservice for handling subscription management operations. It provides -
- plan creations and management - plan includes plan tier - silo/pooled
- Add or Update Plan Items/Services/Resources to Plans - plan items are the offerings to user with in the selected plan
- Billing & Invoice Management.

## Billing & Invoicing
 we have created a package [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) that  is designed to integrate billing functionality into LoopBack 4 applications. It provides an abstraction layer to work with billing services such as Chargebee, Stripe etc, offering common billing operations like creating and managing customers, invoices, payment sources, and transactions.


## Installation

Install Subscription service using `npm`;

```sh
$ [npm install | yarn add] @sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service
```

## Usage

- Create a new Loopback4 Application (If you don't have one already)
  `lb4 testapp`
- Install the subscription service
  `npm i @sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service`
- Set the [environment variables](#environment-variables).
- Run the [migrations](#migrations).
- Add the `SubscriptionServiceComponent` to your Loopback4 Application (in `application.ts`).
  ```typescript
  // import the SubscriptionServiceComponent
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
  // add Component for subscription-service
  this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
  ```
- Set up a [Loopback4 Datasource](https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/DataSource.html) with `dataSourceName` property set to
  `SubscriptionDB`. You can see an example datasource [here](#setting-up-a-datasource).
- Bind any of the custom [providers](#providers) you need.

## Integrating Billing Functionality into Subscription Service using LoopBack 4

We are leveraging the [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) package to integrate billing capabilities into our Subscription Service.

To include billing functionality, we integrate the BillingComponent into the SubscriptionServiceComponent as follows:
```typescript
// import billing component from loopback4-billing
import {BillingComponent} from 'loopback4-billing';
  // add Component for subscription-service component
this.application.component(BillingComponent);
```
We utilize the BillingProvider binding from [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) in our controllers as shown below:

  ```typescript
// import billing component from loopback4-billing
import {BillingComponentBindings,IService} from 'loopback4-billing';
  // add Component for subscription-service component
export class BillingInvoiceController {
  constructor(
...
    @inject(BillingComponentBindings.BillingProvider)
    private readonly billingProvider: IService,
...
  ) {}
}
```

Depending on the billing provider, the setup process varies. Currently, we support Stripe and Chargebee.

### For ChargeBee -
To use Chargebee as the billing provider, you need to configure the Chargebee API keys and site URL in your application. You can set these values in the environment variables of your LoopBack 4 project.
```
API_KEY=your_chargebee_api_key
SITE=your_chargebee_site_url
```
Next, bind these values with ChargeBeeBindings.Config and register the Chargebee provider, as shown below:
```typescript
import { ChargeBeeBindings,BillingComponentBindings } from 'loopback4-billing';
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
export class YourApplication extends BootMixin(
  ServiceMixin(RepositoryMixin(RestApplication)),
) {
  constructor(options: ApplicationConfig = {}) {
    super(options);

    // Bind the config values
    this.bind(ChargeBeeBindings.config).to({
      site: process.env.SITE ?? '',
      apiKey: process.env.API_KEY ?? '',
    });
    // Register Billing component
    this.bind(BillingComponentBindings.SDKProvider).toProvider(
      ChargeBeeServiceProvider,
    );

    this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
    // Other configurations
  }
}
```


### For STRIPE -
To use Stripe as the billing provider, you need to configure the Chargebee API keys and site URL in your application. You can set these values in the environment variables of your LoopBack 4 project.
```
STRIPE_SECRET=your_stripe_secret_key
```
Next, bind these values with StripeBindings.Config and register the Stripe provider, as shown below:

```typescript
import { StripeBindings,BillingComponentBindings } from 'loopback4-billing';
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
export class YourApplication extends BootMixin(
  ServiceMixin(RepositoryMixin(RestApplication)),
) {
  constructor(options: ApplicationConfig = {}) {
    super(options);

    // Bind the config values
    this.bind(StripeBindings.config).to({
      secretKey: process.env.STRIPE_SECRET ?? '',
    });
    // Register Billing component
    this.bind(BillingComponentBindings.SDKProvider).toProvider(
      StripeServiceProvider,
    );

    this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
    // Other configurations
  }
}
```
### Environment Variables

<table>
  <thead>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Required</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>NODE_ENV</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Node environment value, i.e. `dev`, `test`, `prod</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>LOG_LEVEL</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Log level value, i.e. `error`, `warn`, `info`, `verbose`, `debug`</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_HOST</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Hostname for the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_PORT</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Port for the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_USER</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>User for the database.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_PASSWORD</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Password for the database user.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_DATABASE</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database to connect to on the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_SCHEMA</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database schema used for the data source. In PostgreSQL, this will be `public` unless a schema is made explicitly for the service.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_HOST</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Hostname of the Redis server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_PORT</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Port to connect to the Redis server over.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_URL</td>
        <td>Y</td>
      <td>Fully composed URL for Redis connection. Used instead of other settings if set.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_PASSWORD</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Password for Redis if authentication is enabled.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_DATABASE</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database within Redis to connect to.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>JWT_SECRET</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Symmetric signing key of the JWT token.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>JWT_ISSUER</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Issuer of the JWT token.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      
  </tbody>
</table>

### Setting up a `DataSource`

Here is a sample Implementation `DataSource` implementation using environment variables and PostgreSQL as the data source. 

```typescript
import {inject, lifeCycleObserver, LifeCycleObserver} from '@loopback/core';
import {juggler} from '@loopback/repository';
import {TenantManagementDbSourceName} from "@sourceloop/tenant-management-service";

const config = {
  name: SubscriptionDbSourceName,
  connector: 'postgresql',
  url: '',
  host: process.env.DB_HOST,
  port: process.env.DB_PORT,
  user: process.env.DB_USER,
  password: process.env.DB_PASSWORD,
  database: process.env.DB_DATABASE,
  schema: process.env.DB_SCHEMA,
};

@lifeCycleObserver('datasource')
export class AuthenticationDbDataSource
  extends juggler.DataSource
  implements LifeCycleObserver
{
  static dataSourceName = SubscriptionDbSourceName;
  static readonly defaultConfig = config;

  constructor(
    // You need to set datasource configuration name as 'datasources.config.Authentication' otherwise you might get Errors
    @inject(`datasources.config.${SubscriptionDbSourceName}`, {optional: true})
    dsConfig: object = config,
  ) {
    super(dsConfig);
  }
}
```

### Migrations

The migrations required for this service can be copied from the service. You can customize or cherry-pick the migrations in the copied files according to your specific requirements and then apply them to the DB.

## Database Schema
![Screenshot from 2024-04-24 11-55-23](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/assets/107617248/d780de95-61d9-4eda-9903-b16277813a6e)

Commit message:

docs(subscription-service): update readme to include plan customization (#59)
## Description

update readme to include plan customization

Fixes # (issue)

## Type of change

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing
functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] Intermediate change (work in progress)

## How Has This Been Tested?

Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. Provide
instructions so we can reproduce. Please also list any relevant details
for your test configuration

- [ ] Test A
- [ ] Test B

## Checklist:

- [ ] Performed a self-review of my own code
- [ ] npm test passes on your machine
- [ ] New tests added or existing tests modified to cover all changes
- [ ] Code conforms with the style guide
- [ ] API Documentation in code was updated
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published in downstream
modules

Co-authored-by: yeshamavani <83634146+yeshamavani@users.noreply.github.com>

services/subscription-service/README.md, after:

# subscription-service
[![LoopBack](<https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/raw/master/docs/site/imgs/branding/Powered-by-LoopBack-Badge-(blue)-@2x.png>)](http://loopback.io/)

This is the primary service of the control plane responsible for subscription and plan management.


## Overview

A Microservice for handling subscription management operations. It provides -
- plan creations and management - plan includes plan tier - silo/pooled
- Add or Update Plan Items/Services/Resources to Plans - plan items are the offerings to user with in the selected plan
- Billing & Invoice Management.

## Billing & Invoicing
 we have created a package [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) that  is designed to integrate billing functionality into LoopBack 4 applications. It provides an abstraction layer to work with billing services such as Chargebee, Stripe etc, offering common billing operations like creating and managing customers, invoices, payment sources, and transactions.

## Customizing Plans with Sizes and Features
This feature allows for the creation and management of plans with different sizes and features. Plans are used to represent various service tiers or options you offer to your customers. Sizes define the overall scope or capacity of a plan, while features are specific functionalities that can be enabled or disabled for each plan.

The Plan Customization feature consists of two main aspects:
- Plan Sizes: Manage different plan sizes and their configurations.
- Plan Features: Customize features associated with a specific plan.

#### Plan Sizes

Plan sizes are defined by the PlanSizes model. Here's a breakdown of PlanSize:

- size: The name or label of the plan size (string, required)
- config: An optional object that can hold additional configuration details specific to the plan size


#### Plan Features

Plan features are managed through the FeatureValues model and associated with plans using the PlanFeaturesController. Here's a breakdown of the relevant concepts:

- Feature: Represents a general capability or functionality offered in your plans.
- FeatureValues: This model associates features with specific plans and allows configuration of their values.

## Installation

Install Subscription service using `npm`;

```sh
$ [npm install | yarn add] @sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service
```

## Usage

- Create a new Loopback4 Application (If you don't have one already)
  `lb4 testapp`
- Install the subscription service
  `npm i @sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service`
- Set the [environment variables](#environment-variables).
- Run the [migrations](#migrations).
- Add the `SubscriptionServiceComponent` to your Loopback4 Application (in `application.ts`).
  ```typescript
  // import the SubscriptionServiceComponent
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
  // add Component for subscription-service
  this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
  ```
- Set up a [Loopback4 Datasource](https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/DataSource.html) with `dataSourceName` property set to
  `SubscriptionDB`. You can see an example datasource [here](#setting-up-a-datasource).
- Bind any of the custom [providers](#providers) you need.

## Integrating Billing Functionality into Subscription Service using LoopBack 4

We are leveraging the [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) package to integrate billing capabilities into our Subscription Service.

To include billing functionality, we integrate the BillingComponent into the SubscriptionServiceComponent as follows:
```typescript
// import billing component from loopback4-billing
import {BillingComponent} from 'loopback4-billing';
  // add Component for subscription-service component
this.application.component(BillingComponent);
```
We utilize the BillingProvider binding from [loopback4-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/loopback4-billing) in our controllers as shown below:

  ```typescript
// import billing component from loopback4-billing
import {BillingComponentBindings,IService} from 'loopback4-billing';
  // add Component for subscription-service component
export class BillingInvoiceController {
  constructor(
...
    @inject(BillingComponentBindings.BillingProvider)
    private readonly billingProvider: IService,
...
  ) {}
}
```

Depending on the billing provider, the setup process varies. Currently, we support Stripe and Chargebee.

### For ChargeBee -
To use Chargebee as the billing provider, you need to configure the Chargebee API keys and site URL in your application. You can set these values in the environment variables of your LoopBack 4 project.
```
API_KEY=your_chargebee_api_key
SITE=your_chargebee_site_url
```
Next, bind these values with ChargeBeeBindings.Config and register the Chargebee provider, as shown below:
```typescript
import { ChargeBeeBindings,BillingComponentBindings } from 'loopback4-billing';
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
export class YourApplication extends BootMixin(
  ServiceMixin(RepositoryMixin(RestApplication)),
) {
  constructor(options: ApplicationConfig = {}) {
    super(options);

    // Bind the config values
    this.bind(ChargeBeeBindings.config).to({
      site: process.env.SITE ?? '',
      apiKey: process.env.API_KEY ?? '',
    });
    // Register Billing component
    this.bind(BillingComponentBindings.SDKProvider).toProvider(
      ChargeBeeServiceProvider,
    );

    this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
    // Other configurations
  }
}
```


### For STRIPE -
To use Stripe as the billing provider, you need to configure the Chargebee API keys and site URL in your application. You can set these values in the environment variables of your LoopBack 4 project.
```
STRIPE_SECRET=your_stripe_secret_key
```
Next, bind these values with StripeBindings.Config and register the Stripe provider, as shown below:

```typescript
import { StripeBindings,BillingComponentBindings } from 'loopback4-billing';
  import {SubscriptionServiceComponent} from '@sourceloop/ctrl-plane-subscription-service';
export class YourApplication extends BootMixin(
  ServiceMixin(RepositoryMixin(RestApplication)),
) {
  constructor(options: ApplicationConfig = {}) {
    super(options);

    // Bind the config values
    this.bind(StripeBindings.config).to({
      secretKey: process.env.STRIPE_SECRET ?? '',
    });
    // Register Billing component
    this.bind(BillingComponentBindings.SDKProvider).toProvider(
      StripeServiceProvider,
    );

    this.component(SubscriptionServiceComponent);
    // Other configurations
  }
}
```
### Environment Variables

<table>
  <thead>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Required</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>NODE_ENV</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Node environment value, i.e. `dev`, `test`, `prod</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>LOG_LEVEL</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Log level value, i.e. `error`, `warn`, `info`, `verbose`, `debug`</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_HOST</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Hostname for the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_PORT</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Port for the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_USER</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>User for the database.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_PASSWORD</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Password for the database user.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_DATABASE</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database to connect to on the database server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>DB_SCHEMA</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database schema used for the data source. In PostgreSQL, this will be `public` unless a schema is made explicitly for the service.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_HOST</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Hostname of the Redis server.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_PORT</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Port to connect to the Redis server over.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_URL</td>
        <td>Y</td>
      <td>Fully composed URL for Redis connection. Used instead of other settings if set.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_PASSWORD</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Password for Redis if authentication is enabled.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>REDIS_DATABASE</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Database within Redis to connect to.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>JWT_SECRET</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Symmetric signing key of the JWT token.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>JWT_ISSUER</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>Issuer of the JWT token.</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      
  </tbody>
</table>

### Setting up a `DataSource`

Here is a sample Implementation `DataSource` implementation using environment variables and PostgreSQL as the data source. 

```typescript
import {inject, lifeCycleObserver, LifeCycleObserver} from '@loopback/core';
import {juggler} from '@loopback/repository';
import {TenantManagementDbSourceName} from "@sourceloop/tenant-management-service";

const config = {
  name: SubscriptionDbSourceName,
  connector: 'postgresql',
  url: '',
  host: process.env.DB_HOST,
  port: process.env.DB_PORT,
  user: process.env.DB_USER,
  password: process.env.DB_PASSWORD,
  database: process.env.DB_DATABASE,
  schema: process.env.DB_SCHEMA,
};

@lifeCycleObserver('datasource')
export class AuthenticationDbDataSource
  extends juggler.DataSource
  implements LifeCycleObserver
{
  static dataSourceName = SubscriptionDbSourceName;
  static readonly defaultConfig = config;

  constructor(
    // You need to set datasource configuration name as 'datasources.config.Authentication' otherwise you might get Errors
    @inject(`datasources.config.${SubscriptionDbSourceName}`, {optional: true})
    dsConfig: object = config,
  ) {
    super(dsConfig);
  }
}
```

### Migrations

The migrations required for this service can be copied from the service. You can customize or cherry-pick the migrations in the copied files according to your specific requirements and then apply them to the DB.

## Database Schema
![Screenshot from 2024-04-24 11-55-23](https://github.com/sourcefuse/arc-saas/assets/107617248/d780de95-61d9-4eda-9903-b16277813a6e)
